# Wine Quality Predictor
Authors: Sid Ahuja, Zackarya Hamza, Alexander Dawson

Demo of a data analysis project for DSCI 310 (Reproducible & Trustworthy workflows); a course in the Data Science faculty.

## About
In this project, we build a prediction model using the k-nearest neighbours algorithm which attempts to categorize the quality of a wine based on its' physiochemical properties. We classify wine quality into a binary category: whether it is good or bad. Our classifier performed moderately well on the test set, but further research must be done to improve the model before it is put into production.

The dataset that we used for this project is about white variants of the Portugese "Vinho Verde" wine, which was assembled by Paulo Cortez, A. Cerdeira, F. Almeida, T.Matos, and J.Reis. The dataset was sourced from UCI Machine Learning Repository (Dua and Graff 2017), located [here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/186/wine+quality). Each row in this dataset showcases an observation of a white wine, specifically related to its physicochemical and sensory attributes.  

## Dependencies
Docker is a container solution used to manage the software dependencies for this project. The Docker image used for this project is based on the quay.io/jupyter/r-notebook:2024-03-14 image. Additional dependencies are specified in the Dockerfile.

## Usage
Use the steps below to reproduce this analysis.

### Setup
1. [Install](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) and launch Docker on your computer.
2. Clone this GitHub repository.

### Running the analysis
Navigate to the root of this project on your computer using the command line and enter the following command to reset the project to a clean state (i.e., remove all files generated by previous runs of the analysis):

``` bash
docker-compose run --rm analysis-env make clean
```

To run the analysis in its entirety, enter the following command in the terminal in the project root:

``` bash
docker-compose run --rm project-image make all
```

### Working with container JupyterLab, the terminal, or VSCode
To work with the project and container in **JupyterLab**, use terminal to navigate to the root of this project and enter:

``` bash
docker compose up
```

Look in the terminal for a URL that starting *http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=* and copy/paste it into a browser. The JupyterLab IDE will load. Do not close the terminal while in use, otherwise you will lose your current session.

Clean up: type Ctrl + c in the terminal. Enter `docker compose rm` in the terminal to remove the container.

To work with the project using just the **terminal**, navigate to the root of this project and enter:

``` bash
docker compose run --rm analysis-env bash
```

To exit the container and clean up, enter `exit` in the terminal.

To work in **VSCode** , open VSCode and launch the terminal from there. Navigate to the root of this project and enter:


``` bash
docker compose run --rm analysis-env bash
```

To exit the container and clean up, enter `exit` in the terminal.

## Report

The final report can be found
[here](https://github.com/DSCI-310-2024/DSCI-310-Group-18_wine-quality-predictor/blob/main/wine_quality_predictor_report.ipynb).

## License
Our report is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/MIT). See [LICENSE](https://github.com/DSCI-310-2024/DSCI-310-Group-18_wine-quality-predictor/blob/8fb3e227b92abd07962779aa3e01b77c78fdc9d2/LICENSE) for additional information.

## References
Cortez,Paulo, Cerdeira,A., Almeida,F., Matos,T., and Reis,J.. (2009). Wine Quality. UCI Machine Learning Repository. https://doi.org/10.24432/C56S3T.

CVRVV. (2024). Vinho Verde. https://www.vinhoverde.pt/en/homepage

Tiffany Timbers, Trevor Campbell. “Data Science.” Data Science, 23 Dec. 2023, datasciencebook.ca/. 

Chester Ismay and Albert Y. Kim   Foreword by Kelly S. McConville. “Statistical Inference via Data Science.” Statistical Inference via Data Science, 13 Feb. 2024, moderndive.com/index.html. 
